example-projects/advanced/README.md, before:

# cljsbuild-example-advanced

This is an example web application that uses [lein-cljsbuild][1],
[Ring][2], and [Compojure][3]. It demonstrates several things:

1. The use of lein-cljsbuild to build ClojureScript into JavaScript.
2. How to share code between Clojure and ClojureScript, including macros.
3. How to use lein-cljsbuild's various REPL commands.
4. How to configure lein-cljsbuild to perform multiple parallel builds.

To play around with this example project, you will first need
[Leiningen][4] installed.

## Running the App

Set up and start the server like this:

    $ cd example-projects/advanced
    $ lein ring server-headless 3000

> NOTE 1: You do not need to issue the `lein cljsbuild once`
> subtask. This is because `cljsbuild` has been hooked to `lein` tasks
> in the `project.clj` (i.e. `:hooks [leiningen.cljsbuild]`). This way
> when the above `lein ring server-headless 3000` subtask is executed,
> it implicitly executes the `lein compile` task which, in turn,
> implicitly executes the `lein cljsbuild once` subtask as well.

Now, point your web browser at `http://localhost:3000`, and see the web app in action!

## PhantomJS

[PhantomJS] (http://www.phantomjs.org) is a headless Webkit browser, which can be automated
via Javascript.  It provides a Javascript execution environment with access to all browser
features (the DOM, etc), without opening a browser GUI.

The tests and the "phantom-*" REPLs require PhantomJS 1.3 or newer to be installed.
The process for accomplishing This is OS dependent.  See [PhantomJS] (http://www.phantomjs.org)
for information on installing it on your OS.

If you do not plan to run the tests and only want to use the rhino or firefox REPLs, you can skip this step.

## Running the Tests

To run the unit tests:

    $ lein cljsbuild test

Note that if more than one test were configured in the project, the above command would
run all tests.  To run the "unit" tests in isolation:

    $ lein cljsbuild test unit

The unit tests live in `test-cljs`.  They are written in ClojureScript, and thus must
be compiled, so they have their own entry in the `:builds` configuration.  Note that
all of the `:source-path` entries from the `:builds` are added to the classpath, so
the tests can `:require` ClojureScript namespaces from, e.g., the `src-cljs` directory.

See the `phantom/unit-test.js` file for more details on how PhantomJS is configured to
make this work.

## Connecting Firefox to a REPL

First, in one terminal, start the Ring server:

    $ lein ring server-headless 3000

Now, in a different terminal, run `repl-launch` with the "firefox" identifier and the URL of the REPL demo page:

    $ lein trampoline cljsbuild repl-launch firefox http://localhost:3000/repl-demo

The REPL should start, and in a moment, Firefox should start up and browse to the `repl-demo`
page.  Viewing the source for `repl-demo`, you'll see that after loading the main JavaScript
file, it calls `example.repl.connect()`.  This function connects back to the REPL, thereby
allowing you to execute arbitrary ClojureScript code in the context of the `repl-demo` page.

There's also a launcher configured for a "naked" page.  This is just a simple static
HTML page that will connect to the REPL.  This is convenient when you want to run
a ClojureScript REPL with access to your project, but don't need a specific page to
be loaded at the time.  The biggest advantage to the "naked" launcher is that you don't
need to have your app running in the background:

    $ lein trampoline cljsbuild repl-launch firefox-naked

## Connecting PhantomJS to a REPL

To try out a PhantomJS-based REPL, first start the Ring server in one terminal:

    $ lein ring server-headless 3000

Now, in a different terminal, run `repl-launch` with the "phantom" identifier and the URL of the REPL demo page:

    $ lein trampoline cljsbuild repl-launch phantom http://localhost:3000/repl-demo

The REPL should start, and in a moment, PhantomJS should start up and browse to the `repl-demo`
page, in the background.  This is a convenient way to interact with your application in cases
where you don't need to open a full browser UI.

As with the Firefox example, there's a launch configured for a "naked" page.  This is probably
the most convenient way to launch a REPL when you just want to try running a couple snippets
of ClojureScript code.  As with the "firefox-naked" launcher, you don't need your app to be
running in the background:

    $ lein trampoline cljsbuild repl-launch phantom-naked

[1]: https://github.com/emezeske/lein-cljsbuild
[2]: https://github.com/ring-clojure/ring
[3]: https://github.com/weavejester/compojure
[4]: https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen

Commit message:

Update advanced example project
- update dependencies
- remove crossovers and use cljc instead

example-projects/advanced/README.md, after:

# cljsbuild-example-advanced

This is an example web application that uses [lein-cljsbuild][1],
[Ring][2], and [Compojure][3]. It demonstrates several things:

1. The use of lein-cljsbuild to build ClojureScript into JavaScript.
2. How to share code between Clojure and ClojureScript, including macros.
3. How to use lein-cljsbuild's various REPL commands.
4. How to configure lein-cljsbuild to perform multiple parallel builds.

To play around with this example project, you will first need
[Leiningen][4] installed.

## Running the App

Make sure you are in the right folder:

    $ cd example-projects/advanced

Then compile the ClojureScript code:

    $ lein cljsbuild once

Now start the server:

    $ lein ring server-headless 3000

Now, point your web browser at `http://localhost:3000`, and see the web app in action!

## PhantomJS

[PhantomJS] (http://www.phantomjs.org) is a headless Webkit browser, which can be automated
via Javascript.  It provides a Javascript execution environment with access to all browser
features (the DOM, etc), without opening a browser GUI.

The tests and the "phantom-*" REPLs require PhantomJS 1.3 or newer to be installed.
The process for accomplishing This is OS dependent. See [PhantomJS] (http://www.phantomjs.org)
for information on installing it on your OS.

If you do not plan to run the tests and only want to use the rhino or firefox REPLs, you can skip this step.

## Running the Tests

To run the unit tests:

    $ lein cljsbuild test

Note that if more than one test were configured in the project, the above command would
run all tests. To run the "unit" tests in isolation:

    $ lein cljsbuild test unit

The unit tests live in `test-cljs`.  They are written in ClojureScript, and thus must
be compiled, so they have their own entry in the `:builds` configuration. Note that
all of the `:source-path` entries from the `:builds` are added to the classpath, so
the tests can `:require` ClojureScript namespaces from, e.g., the `src-cljs` directory.

See the `phantom/unit-test.js` file for more details on how PhantomJS is configured to
make this work.

## Connecting Firefox to a REPL

First, in one terminal, compile the ClojureScript code and then start the Ring server:

    $ lein cljsbuild once
    $ lein ring server-headless 3000

Now, in a different terminal, run `repl-launch` with the "firefox" identifier and the URL of the REPL demo page:

    $ lein trampoline cljsbuild repl-launch firefox http://localhost:3000/repl-demo

The REPL should start, and in a moment, Firefox should start up and browse to the `repl-demo`
page. Viewing the source for `repl-demo`, you'll see that after loading the main JavaScript
file, it calls `example.repl.connect()`. This function connects back to the REPL, thereby
allowing you to execute arbitrary ClojureScript code in the context of the `repl-demo` page.

There's also a launcher configured for a "naked" page.  This is just a simple static
HTML page that will connect to the REPL.  This is convenient when you want to run
a ClojureScript REPL with access to your project, but don't need a specific page to
be loaded at the time.  The biggest advantage to the "naked" launcher is that you don't
need to have your app running in the background:

    $ lein trampoline cljsbuild repl-launch firefox-naked

## Connecting PhantomJS to a REPL

To try out a PhantomJS-based REPL, compile the ClojureScript code and then start the Ring server in one terminal:

    $ lein cljsbuild once
    $ lein ring server-headless 3000

Now, in a different terminal, run `repl-launch` with the "phantom" identifier and the URL of the REPL demo page:

    $ lein trampoline cljsbuild repl-launch phantom http://localhost:3000/repl-demo

The REPL should start, and in a moment, PhantomJS should start up and browse to the `repl-demo`
page, in the background. This is a convenient way to interact with your application in cases
where you don't need to open a full browser UI.

As with the Firefox example, there's a launch configured for a "naked" page. This is probably
the most convenient way to launch a REPL when you just want to try running a couple snippets
of ClojureScript code. As with the "firefox-naked" launcher, you don't need your app to be
running in the background:

    $ lein trampoline cljsbuild repl-launch phantom-naked

[1]: https://github.com/emezeske/lein-cljsbuild
[2]: https://github.com/ring-clojure/ring
[3]: https://github.com/weavejester/compojure
[4]: https://github.com/technomancy/leiningen
